# What is this site?

This site is essentially an HTML (and CSS/JS/etc) application. It runs on any (modern enough) browser, so you don't have to download any programs to use it. The end user is the student in the seminar course, who only has to navigate to the site in order to use it. You the seminar host have to do a little more to use this site, and the extra stuf you do is all related to HTML/etc files which make up a website. You don't have to be an expert in HTML/etc to do this, though, if these readmes are in any way useful. See the newQual readme for an overview of all the HTML/etc interaction required of you to make a new qual page and the dataStorage readme for an overview of how to add/modify the problems of your qual.

# Browser and Internet

This is a static website. The most intended way to use it is to navigate to the url in a browser with an internet connection. However, it is completely possible, and not too difficult, to use this site offline because it is a static site (this is a key feature of static sites and the rest of this paragraph talks about this). If you are interested in making changes to the site, you should learn how to do this because this is how you test your changes. One way to get the site in offline mode would be to clone the GitHub repository onto your device and then open the html files in a browser. Note that you may have to change some settings in your browser to do this because by default most browsers don't allow locally hosted sites -- they will display the homepage but they won't load any of the scripts needed. This is a general security precaution, involving cross origin resource sharing (CORS), which you probably have to address in some setting somewhere to use this site offline.

The other key feature of static sites is that they have no way of communicating information to the server. This means that you cannot actually change the website, damage or improve, from the site itself. You have to go to the server (GitHub and GitHub pages) to change the site. If you somehow do something which totally messes up the site then just clearing the browser's localStorage memory and refreshing the page is all it takes to reset it.

If you downloaded the repository and are running the site locally and offline then you can change the site itself by changing the associated files on your computer, but this only changes your local version and not the global online version. If you are trying to author problems and/or a new qual page then you should check out the dataStorage readme for an overview of the different levels of where changes are saved.