# Data Storage

The primary purpose of this editor is to create a folder of files, one file for each problem, which you download to your computer and then upload to GitHub where they become part of the site. There are a few levels of storage between a blank page and a finished problems folder, so we describe them here.

# During a Browser Session

When you are on the TeX editor page, you have a copy of the active problems repository loaded at all times, stored by id. At first this is empty, but you can import a qual (see below) and once you do that you will have that qual's problems loaded. Most of these problems are inactive, just sitting in the  background (the javascript engine powering your browser), but there is always one active problem. The active problem is the one which is displayed in the GUI. Clicking the Clear/New Problem button blurs the currently active problem (not erasing, just losing focus) and focuses on a problem with id `changeMe`, then it resets all the data in the GUI/active problem to be blank. Unless the previously active problem had the id `changeMe`, it will not be lost in this process but will instead be stored and accessible by whatever id it has.

When it is asked to save problems, this editor ignores a problem if its id is `changeMe`, which is also what it starts a blank problem as. If you don't want to lose the problem you have to change the id by entering a new id into the id box. There are two potential efects of this: if you choose a not-yet-used id, the editor will rename the active problem to that new id. This involves erasing the problem stored under the old id and resaving it under the new name (the problem is not affected, only moved).

The other case is that you enter the id of an existing problem. This does not overrwrite/erase anything and it does not rename anything. Instead it switches the focus from the previously active problem to the probem you just entered. Behind the scened it moves the previously focused problem into the background with all the other background problems, stored by its id (unless that id is `changeMe`, in which case it is just lost), and then fetches the problem under the new id and brings it to focus. You don't have to click the save button after every change you make, the browser holds all the problems with all your changes for the duration of a session.

If for some reason you want to completely erase a problem, you can do so by renaming it to `changeMe`. Do not do this to any problem you care about. The editor ignores any problem with id `changeMe` when either saving or autosaving, so this effectively takes the problem out of the realm of the editor's consideration (aka erases it). If you navigate to a different problem now then the problem marked `changeMe` will be lost upon populating the GUI with the named problem's data. Alternatively, clicking the Clear / New Problem button at this point will erase all the data in the `changeMe` problem and it will be no longer retrievable.

# Standalone Problem

You can write problems and save them one at a time. Click the save button and this site will generate a file containing the active problem and will offer it to you to save somewhere on your computer. This is the simplest way to obtain a single problem file. The downside to this is that you have to manually add the problem id to the `problemsList.txt` file, and then repeat this process with each new problem you write. Only do this if you are getting a feel for how the editor works or if you aren't using it for a problem in a qual repository but an actually standalone problem.

# Problem in a Qual

If you have succesfully initiated a qual on this site and have given the qual some problems, you will want to preload the whole qual page's set of problems before you work on new problems for that qual. Doing this lets the editor help with avoiding name conflicts, populates metainformation lists with the metainformation from all the problems in the qual, and allows downloading the whole folder at once when you are done making your changes. To import a qual, enter the name of your qual in the appropriate input.

When a qual is loaded you can open a saved problem by entering the id into the problem id box. This allows you to modify existing problems. Remember this does not actually affect the site -- you have to change the folder in the master branch on GitHub in order for your changes to actually be made live.

If you want to create a new problem in a qual, click the Clear/New Problem button. This will generate a blank problem with an id of `changeMe`, which you have to change or else your problem will be ignored by the editor. You can create multiple new problems in a session without saving each one independently because the whole list of problems is held by the editor while it is open. Once you have finished your session and are ready to download the new problems all at once (along with all the old problems too), click the Save All button to get a `.zip` folder with all problems in that qual. You have to unzip the folder on your own computer and then put that new folder onto GitHub (or your local version depending on how you opened this website) to make the changes affect the website.

# Local Problems

There is a way to work with auto saving, where each problem is kept stored in browser storage so that they are not lost when you close the window. To do this, enter `local` as the qual name when you begin. This creates and maintains a local repository of questions inside your browser, so you only have to click save when you are ready to use the folder. Enter `local qualName` to initialize the local repository and then load the current set of problems for the corresponding qual.

Autosave is a wonderful thing when it works. As we saw above, the problems are already automatically saved during a browser session. Enabling autosave by using the `local` qualName essentially extends this autosaving feature to be persistent through closing the window. You can turn off your computer if you want and the changes will still be saved in the browser's local storage. Just know that this autosave can only go so far -- if you clear your browser's cache/memory (this happens automatically in private/incognito mode) then you will lose any autosaved problems. Also you should test the autosave feature before relying on it. Testing consists of trying it out on just one problem: on a new load, enter `local` to initialize autosave. Enter some stuff into the active problem and rename it to something other than `changeMe`. Close the browser. Reopen it, enter `local` again, and see if you can find the test problem you made. If so then autosave works, and if not then it doesn't.

The erase button for local storage will erase all the locally stored problems from browser memory. It does not actually erase any files (browsers can't do that), it just clears the autosaved data. This feature is for clearing up browser memory without totally resetting the browser memory (which you can do from some setting in your browser), which would also lose some other information you may not want to lose.

# The Least-Git Qual Authorship Process

If you have a bunch of problems stored elsewhere and you want to make a qual on this site using those problems, and you don't yet have deep experience with Git, here is the way to do it which minimizes your interaction with Git. First choose which computer and which browser you will use for all the editing. We will be using the autosave feature, which is browser specific, so this only works if you do all the editing in the same browser on the same machine. Also make sure you are not in private/incognito mode because these modes intentionally disable browser storage.

You may want to have a gameplan for metainformation before writing all the problems. If you already have your list of problems written up elsewhere then you probably have a good idea of how you want to be able to sort them, and that is what metainformation is for. It is, at least for me, more tedious to go through the problems after they are written and apply tags to them than it is to apply them as you write the problem. You can always add more metainformation on the fly, and they will retroactively apply to previous problems by virtue of default values.

It is possible to start a new qual enitrely from scratch, just enter `local` as the qual name. Now you have set up autosave and are ready to add problems. Go through your list of problems and copy/paste (or otherwise enter) the TeX in the problem and solution spots. Make sure you click New Problem for every new problem and that you give each problem a unique id.

At this point you can enter the problems in batches. As long as you don't clear your browser's memory (and assuming autosave is working in your browser), the problems you write will continue to be accessible under the `local` qualName. You can close the browser and come back to it if you don't get all the problems done in one session. That said, it is always a good idea to save your work periodically to actual files using the Save All button.

Once you have entered all the problems from your previous stash of problems, and once you are satisfied with the metainformation, you are ready to do the Git stuff. Save the problems all at once (Save All button) and unzip them somewhere on your computer. This will leave you with a folder with two elements, the `problemsList.txt` file and the `problems` folder. The `problems` folder will have a `.xml` file for each problem you authored. When this is done you will start the Git process.

As described in the whatIsGitHub readme, set up your GitHub account, set up your branch, and pull the branch to your computer. Then follow the directions in the newQual readme to initialize your qual. This step involves copying some stuff and changing a few words to the name of your new qual, and the end result is that you will have your own site and your own problems list infrastructure.

In the (as-yet empty) problems folder you just created, add the contents of the unzipped folder you downloaded from the editor. This populates the right repository with all the problems you have authored. Now you are ready to push your changes and merge them to the master branch. It is good practice to not actually marge to master until you have tested your branch to make sure it actually works, but we won't cover how to do that here. If nothing else just take a peek at the folder of a working qual and check that your file/folder structure matches the working one.